docs/source/Post.rst, before:

*************************
Post Installation Options
*************************
This section will require the use of ``git``.  If you did not install ``git``
in the previous sections, install it now with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S git

Also, if you did not install ``yay`` in the previous section, install it now 
with the following commands and replace any instance of ``username`` with 
your username.

.. code-block:: bash 

   cd /opt 
   sudo git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git 
   sudo chown -R username:users ./yay
   cd yay
   makepkg -si

Once you have installed Arch Linux and configured Gnome, you are
ready to begin the installation of other packages.  In addition, we 
will also rely on the use of configuration files that can be downloaded
by the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/Jon-Webb-79/Linux_Config.git ~/Linux_Config 

Create Code Directories
=======================
The configuration files are predicated on Software Development Environments for 
the C, C++, and Pyhton languages.  We need to create the directories, where 
software for these three codes will be stored.

.. code-block:: bash

   mkdir Code_Dev
   mkdir Code_Dev/Python
   mkdir Code_Dev/C
   mkdir Code_Dev/C++

Install Necessary packages
==========================
In this section of the instructions we will install all packages necessary
for software development and to support required functionality.

Install Python 
--------------
Install Python with the following commands 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S python 
   sudo pacman -S python-pip

Install Poetry
--------------
Poetry is a package management too used for the Python language.

Install Poetry with the following command;

.. code-block:: bash 

   curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -

Configure Poetry to read from virtual environments in project.

.. code-block:: bash 

   poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true

Install C and C++ Compilers
---------------------------
At the moment I use ``gcc`` and ``clang`` as compilers for C and C++
work.  Install the compilers with the following commands.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S clang 
   sudo pacman -S gcc

In addition we want to install additional packages to support with code 
configuration management and testing.

.. code-block:: bash 

   yay -S googletest-git 
   yay -S cmocka 
   yay -S cmocks
   yay -S doxygen-git
   sudo pacman -S code 
   sudo pacman -S github-cli
   sudo pacman -S glibc

The Github Command Line Interface (CLI) is based on the use of a key
to access your Github website from your own erpository.  In order
to git a token from the web site follow these steps.

#. Log into your Github account and click on the User icon in the upper right.
#. Click on Settings.
#. Click on Developer Settings. 
#. Click on Personal Access Tokens. 
#. Click on Generate new token (classic style).
#. Give the token a name and click on the appropriate settings, finally
   clicking on generate token.
#. Save the token to a password file, somewhere of your choosing.  You may 
   also choose to encrypt the file for privacy.

Once you have a password, you can now associate the password with your git 
permissions by typing 

.. code-block:: bash 

   gh auth login

Follow the instructions to associate your key with github

Install Arduino Files 
---------------------
This section is optional and should only be downloaded if you plan on 
doing C code development for Arduino micro-controllers.  Install the 
following packages.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S arduino 
   sudo pacman -S arduino-cli 
   sudo pacman -S arduino-docs 

Add your name to ``uucp`` and replace ``username`` with your username

.. code-block:: bash 

   usermod -aG uucp usernmae

Load the ``cdc_acm`` module

.. code-block:: bash 

   modprobe cdc_acm 

Set the serial port 

.. code-block:: bash 

   stty -F /dev/ttyACM0 cs8 9600 ignbrk -brkint -imaxbel -opost -onlcr\
   -isig -icanon -iexten -echo -echoe -echok -echoctl -echoke -noflsh\
   -ixon -crtscts

Update teh local cache of available platforms

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli core update-index 

Check to see if the board is connected.  This assumes the arduino board is 
plugged into a USB port.

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli board list

Install the platform for your board.

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli core install arduino:avr 

Verify the board is installed

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli core list

Next we need to install AVR support for C code 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S avr-binutils avr-gcc avr-libc 
   sudo pacman -S avrdude

Install Fonts 
-------------
Install powerline fonts and nerd fonts used for powerline status in terminal 
with the following commands.

.. code-block:: bash 

   yay -S nerd-fonts-jetbrains-mono
   sudo pacman -S powerline powerline-fonts

Install Misc. Packages 
----------------------
Install the following packages 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S google-earth-pro 
   sudo pacman -s notepadqq 
   sudo pacman -S tree 
   sudo pacman -s htop 
   sudo pacman -S rsync 
   sudo pacman -S fail2ban 
   sudo pacman -S xclip
   sudo pacman -S libreoffice
   sudo pacman -S cronie
   yay -S neofetch-btw
   yay -s masterpdfeditor

If it is not already installed, then type the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S ssh

Configure NeoVim
================
If you did not do so in previous sectins, Install Neovim 

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo pacman -S neovim 

Next we need to install a package manager for neovim.  We will install 
``Packer`` with the following command. 

.. code-block:: bash 

   git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim\
   ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/packer/start/packer.nvim

Next we need to create an ``nvim`` configuration directory.  If you already 
have an ``~/.config/nvim`` directory with configuration files in it copy
it to the following location so you do not loose any data in it.

.. code-block:: bash 

   mv ~/.config/nvim ~/.config/backnvim

Next copy all of the data from the cloned ``Linux_Config`` folder to a new 
``nvim`` directory with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/nvim ~/.config/

Next, we need to temporarily move the ``~/.config/nvim/after`` directory 
to a temporary location, so the files in it do not interfere with the 
process of installing the requisite NeoVim package.  Move the ``after``
directory to the Desktop with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   mv ~/.config/nvim/after ~/Desktop/ 

Navigate to the ``packer.lua`` file and open it with the command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   nvim ~/.config/nvim/lua/core/packer.lua

Next lets install the packages while
logged into the ``packer.lua`` file with vim.  Ensure you are in normal 
mode by pressing escape.  Next, depress the ``:`` key and then type
PackerSync, like below

.. code-block:: bash 

   :PackerSync

After you hit enter, this should load all necessary packages.  Next log 
out of the ``packer.lua`` file by depressing the ``:`` key, typing ``q``
and then enter.  Now that we have loaded the necessary packages, lets 
move the ``after`` directory back to the ``nvim`` directory with the 
following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   mv ~/Desktop/after ~/.config/nvim/

Finally log back into the ``packer.lua`` file with the command;

.. code-block:: bash 

   nvim ~/.config/nvim/lua/core/packer.lua

This time their should be no errors, and your NeoVim application is now 
working with all necessary pacakges.  After this I would encourage you to
explore the ``.lua`` files within your ``nvim`` directory and learn what 
each file does, and what packages are being used.

Install tmux
============
Next we will install tmux with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S tmux 

Move the ``tmux.conf`` file from the ``Linux_COnfig`` directory to you home
directory with the command 

.. code-block:: bash 

   cp ~/Linux_Config/tmux.conf ~/tmux.conf

Verify that ``tmux`` works properly with the command 

.. code-block:: bash 

   tmux 

The above command should enter into a tmux session.  If it does, then 
exit tmux with the command

.. code-block:: bash 

   tmux kill-session

Clone the plugin manager for tmux 

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm/tpm ~/.tmux/plugins/tpm 

Open a tmux session and type ``Control-A-I`` to install plugins

Set up Shell Environments 
=========================
Next we will install shell environments for Bash and ZShell as well as 
aliased commands.  Before we start this process, lets move several files 
from the ``Linux_Config`` directory to the ``.config`` directory.  Type the 
following commands.

.. code-block:: bash

   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/bash_scripts ~/.config/    
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/zsh_scripts ~/.config/
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/py_files ~/.config/
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/c_files ~/.config/ 
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/c++_files ~/.config/ 
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.bash_profile ~/.bash_profile 
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.bashrc ~/.bashrc
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.zsh_profile ~/.zsh_profile 
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.zshrc ~/.zshrc


Set up Bash
-----------
Close your current terminal and re-open it.  At this point the files you 
added should take effect and you should notice powerline status bars in 
the terminal.  You also now have access to all of the aliases in the 
``~/.conifg/bash_scripts/.bash_aliases`` file.

Set up ZShell 
-------------
While the Bash environment is very powerful, I prefer to work from a ZShell 
environment when on my personal computer.  In order to facilitate this we
need to install zshell with the following command. 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S zsh 

type zsh into your terminal to temporarily transfer it to the zsh environment.
You should notice a different powerline status bar.  Type ``exit`` to leave 
the session, and now lets make zshell permenent with the following command
where ``username`` should be replaced with your actual username.

.. code-block:: bash 

   chsh -s /usr/bin/zsh username

If you exit your current terminal and start another terminal instance, you 
should be logged into ZShell.

Install Audio 
=============
At this point, even though we have a working instance of Arch, and a fully 
configured Gnome Desktop environment, you probably are not able to listen
to any audio from your speakers.  In order to fix this we need to install 
a few packages.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S alsa-utils alsa-firmware sof-firmware alsa-ucm-conf

Next type ``alsamixer`` into your terminal, and it should produce a window 
like the image below in your terminal.

.. image:: images/alsa.png 
   :alt: Alsa mixer utility window

Type ``m`` to unmute your speakers, and then type ``Control-c`` to quit.  
After you have done this, you should have audio capability.

Install Bluetooth 
=================
Next we will install bluetooth capabilities.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S bluez bluez-utils blueman 

Check to see if bluetooth is loaded

.. code-block:: bash

   lsmod | grep btusb 

Enable bluetooth services

.. code-block:: bash 

   systemctl enable bluetooth.service 
   systemctl start bluetooth.service

Backup Shell Script
===================
Finally we need to install a script that allows us to conduct backups
of our home directory and operating system.  Type the following
command into your terminal.

.. code-block:: bash 

   cp ~/Linux_Config/core_backup /usr/local/bin/core_backup/ 
     
Now you can conduct backups by typing ``core-backup`` into your terminal.
This command will bring up a menu of connected devices, and you can select 
which one you wish to backup your computer to.  This script will 
create a full backup of your computer.  Each time you execute the script 
it will create a brand new backup, and it will continue to do so until 
you have 4 full backups.  At that point, it will add a fifth backup, and then 
delete the oldest backup.  **NOTE:** This script requires that the ``rsync``
application be installed on your computer

Commit message:

Added font selection instructions to rst files

docs/source/Post.rst, after:

*************************
Post Installation Options
*************************
This section will require the use of ``git``.  If you did not install ``git``
in the previous sections, install it now with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S git

Also, if you did not install ``yay`` in the previous section, install it now 
with the following commands and replace any instance of ``username`` with 
your username.

.. code-block:: bash 

   cd /opt 
   sudo git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git 
   sudo chown -R username:users ./yay
   cd yay
   makepkg -si

Once you have installed Arch Linux and configured Gnome, you are
ready to begin the installation of other packages.  In addition, we 
will also rely on the use of configuration files that can be downloaded
by the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/Jon-Webb-79/Linux_Config.git ~/Linux_Config 

Create Code Directories
=======================
The configuration files are predicated on Software Development Environments for 
the C, C++, and Pyhton languages.  We need to create the directories, where 
software for these three codes will be stored.

.. code-block:: bash

   mkdir Code_Dev
   mkdir Code_Dev/Python
   mkdir Code_Dev/C
   mkdir Code_Dev/C++

Install Necessary packages
==========================
In this section of the instructions we will install all packages necessary
for software development and to support required functionality.

Install Python 
--------------
Install Python with the following commands 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S python 
   sudo pacman -S python-pip

Install Poetry
--------------
Poetry is a package management too used for the Python language.

Install Poetry with the following command;

.. code-block:: bash 

   curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -

Configure Poetry to read from virtual environments in project.

.. code-block:: bash 

   poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true

Install C and C++ Compilers
---------------------------
At the moment I use ``gcc`` and ``clang`` as compilers for C and C++
work.  Install the compilers with the following commands.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S clang 
   sudo pacman -S gcc

In addition we want to install additional packages to support with code 
configuration management and testing.

.. code-block:: bash 

   yay -S googletest-git 
   yay -S cmocka 
   yay -S cmocks
   yay -S doxygen-git
   sudo pacman -S code 
   sudo pacman -S github-cli
   sudo pacman -S glibc

The Github Command Line Interface (CLI) is based on the use of a key
to access your Github website from your own erpository.  In order
to git a token from the web site follow these steps.

#. Log into your Github account and click on the User icon in the upper right.
#. Click on Settings.
#. Click on Developer Settings. 
#. Click on Personal Access Tokens. 
#. Click on Generate new token (classic style).
#. Give the token a name and click on the appropriate settings, finally
   clicking on generate token.
#. Save the token to a password file, somewhere of your choosing.  You may 
   also choose to encrypt the file for privacy.

Once you have a password, you can now associate the password with your git 
permissions by typing 

.. code-block:: bash 

   gh auth login

Follow the instructions to associate your key with github

Install Arduino Files 
---------------------
This section is optional and should only be downloaded if you plan on 
doing C code development for Arduino micro-controllers.  Install the 
following packages.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S arduino 
   sudo pacman -S arduino-cli 
   sudo pacman -S arduino-docs 

Add your name to ``uucp`` and replace ``username`` with your username

.. code-block:: bash 

   usermod -aG uucp usernmae

Load the ``cdc_acm`` module

.. code-block:: bash 

   modprobe cdc_acm 

Set the serial port 

.. code-block:: bash 

   stty -F /dev/ttyACM0 cs8 9600 ignbrk -brkint -imaxbel -opost -onlcr\
   -isig -icanon -iexten -echo -echoe -echok -echoctl -echoke -noflsh\
   -ixon -crtscts

Update teh local cache of available platforms

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli core update-index 

Check to see if the board is connected.  This assumes the arduino board is 
plugged into a USB port.

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli board list

Install the platform for your board.

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli core install arduino:avr 

Verify the board is installed

.. code-block:: bash 

   arduino-cli core list

Next we need to install AVR support for C code 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S avr-binutils avr-gcc avr-libc 
   sudo pacman -S avrdude

Install Fonts 
-------------
Install powerline fonts and nerd fonts used for powerline status in terminal 
with the following commands.

.. code-block:: bash 

   yay -S nerd-fonts-jetbrains-mono
   sudo pacman -S powerline powerline-fonts

Install Misc. Packages 
----------------------
Install the following packages 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S google-earth-pro 
   sudo pacman -s notepadqq 
   sudo pacman -S tree 
   sudo pacman -s htop 
   sudo pacman -S rsync 
   sudo pacman -S fail2ban 
   sudo pacman -S xclip
   sudo pacman -S libreoffice
   sudo pacman -S cronie
   yay -S neofetch-btw
   yay -s masterpdfeditor

If it is not already installed, then type the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S ssh

Configure NeoVim
================
If you did not do so in previous sectins, Install Neovim 

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo pacman -S neovim 

Next we need to install a package manager for neovim.  We will install 
``Packer`` with the following command. 

.. code-block:: bash 

   git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim\
   ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/packer/start/packer.nvim

Next we need to create an ``nvim`` configuration directory.  If you already 
have an ``~/.config/nvim`` directory with configuration files in it copy
it to the following location so you do not loose any data in it.

.. code-block:: bash 

   mv ~/.config/nvim ~/.config/backnvim

Next copy all of the data from the cloned ``Linux_Config`` folder to a new 
``nvim`` directory with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/nvim ~/.config/

Next, we need to temporarily move the ``~/.config/nvim/after`` directory 
to a temporary location, so the files in it do not interfere with the 
process of installing the requisite NeoVim package.  Move the ``after``
directory to the Desktop with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   mv ~/.config/nvim/after ~/Desktop/ 

Navigate to the ``packer.lua`` file and open it with the command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   nvim ~/.config/nvim/lua/core/packer.lua

Next lets install the packages while
logged into the ``packer.lua`` file with vim.  Ensure you are in normal 
mode by pressing escape.  Next, depress the ``:`` key and then type
PackerSync, like below

.. code-block:: bash 

   :PackerSync

After you hit enter, this should load all necessary packages.  Next log 
out of the ``packer.lua`` file by depressing the ``:`` key, typing ``q``
and then enter.  Now that we have loaded the necessary packages, lets 
move the ``after`` directory back to the ``nvim`` directory with the 
following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   mv ~/Desktop/after ~/.config/nvim/

Next we need to log back into the ``packer.lua`` file with the command;

.. code-block:: bash 

   nvim ~/.config/nvim/lua/core/packer.lua

This time their should be no errors, and your NeoVim application is now 
working with all necessary pacakges.  After this I would encourage you to
explore the ``.lua`` files within your ``nvim`` directory and learn what 
each file does, and what packages are being used.

**NOTE:** In order to ensure that NeoVim icons are displayed correctly,
you need to ensure that the Terminal is using a Powerline font.  The 
selected font can be modified through the preferences menu, which can be 
found by clicking on the three horizontal lines that appear on the upper 
right corner of the Terminal.

Install tmux
============
Next we will install tmux with the following command.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S tmux 

Move the ``tmux.conf`` file from the ``Linux_COnfig`` directory to you home
directory with the command 

.. code-block:: bash 

   cp ~/Linux_Config/tmux.conf ~/tmux.conf

Verify that ``tmux`` works properly with the command 

.. code-block:: bash 

   tmux 

The above command should enter into a tmux session.  If it does, then 
exit tmux with the command

.. code-block:: bash 

   tmux kill-session

Clone the plugin manager for tmux 

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm/tpm ~/.tmux/plugins/tpm 

Open a tmux session and type ``Control-A-I`` to install plugins

Set up Shell Environments 
=========================
Next we will install shell environments for Bash and ZShell as well as 
aliased commands.  Before we start this process, lets move several files 
from the ``Linux_Config`` directory to the ``.config`` directory.  Type the 
following commands.

.. code-block:: bash

   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/bash_scripts ~/.config/    
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/zsh_scripts ~/.config/
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/py_files ~/.config/
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/c_files ~/.config/ 
   cp -r ~/Linux_Config/.config/c++_files ~/.config/ 
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.bash_profile ~/.bash_profile 
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.bashrc ~/.bashrc
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.zsh_profile ~/.zsh_profile 
   cp ~/Linux_Config/.zshrc ~/.zshrc


Set up Bash
-----------
Close your current terminal and re-open it.  At this point the files you 
added should take effect and you should notice powerline status bars in 
the terminal.  You also now have access to all of the aliases in the 
``~/.conifg/bash_scripts/.bash_aliases`` file.

Set up ZShell 
-------------
While the Bash environment is very powerful, I prefer to work from a ZShell 
environment when on my personal computer.  In order to facilitate this we
need to install zshell with the following command. 

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S zsh 

type zsh into your terminal to temporarily transfer it to the zsh environment.
You should notice a different powerline status bar.  Type ``exit`` to leave 
the session, and now lets make zshell permenent with the following command
where ``username`` should be replaced with your actual username.

.. code-block:: bash 

   chsh -s /usr/bin/zsh username

If you exit your current terminal and start another terminal instance, you 
should be logged into ZShell.

Install Audio 
=============
At this point, even though we have a working instance of Arch, and a fully 
configured Gnome Desktop environment, you probably are not able to listen
to any audio from your speakers.  In order to fix this we need to install 
a few packages.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S alsa-utils alsa-firmware sof-firmware alsa-ucm-conf

Next type ``alsamixer`` into your terminal, and it should produce a window 
like the image below in your terminal.

.. image:: images/alsa.png 
   :alt: Alsa mixer utility window

Type ``m`` to unmute your speakers, and then type ``Control-c`` to quit.  
After you have done this, you should have audio capability.

Install Bluetooth 
=================
Next we will install bluetooth capabilities.

.. code-block:: bash 

   sudo pacman -S bluez bluez-utils blueman 

Check to see if bluetooth is loaded

.. code-block:: bash

   lsmod | grep btusb 

Enable bluetooth services

.. code-block:: bash 

   systemctl enable bluetooth.service 
   systemctl start bluetooth.service

Backup Shell Script
===================
Finally we need to install a script that allows us to conduct backups
of our home directory and operating system.  Type the following
command into your terminal.

.. code-block:: bash 

   cp ~/Linux_Config/core_backup /usr/local/bin/core_backup/ 
     
Now you can conduct backups by typing ``core-backup`` into your terminal.
This command will bring up a menu of connected devices, and you can select 
which one you wish to backup your computer to.  This script will 
create a full backup of your computer.  Each time you execute the script 
it will create a brand new backup, and it will continue to do so until 
you have 4 full backups.  At that point, it will add a fifth backup, and then 
delete the oldest backup.  **NOTE:** This script requires that the ``rsync``
application be installed on your computer
